So when I click on this chat icon now in our command line, we should see a new user connected perfect.
We have now established an ongoing connection between the browser and server.
At this point, let's give ourselves a new goal to work towards.
Let's set things up so that when you type a message into the chat field and then press enter to submit
the message, we send that to the server through our socket connection.
And then we told the server to broadcast that out to any and all chat users.
So, for example, I'm logged in with my brat account in this window, but in this browser window I'm
logged in with my Bachs a lot account.
So ideally, if barks a lot, has the chat open when the Brat account sends a message to the server,
the server should then echo out that message to all connected users.
So Bachs a lot should receive it.
This all sounds a lot more complicated than it actually is.
So for now, let's take this one step at a time.
Let's go right the front end or user experience JavaScript to intercept the event of a user typing into
this field and then pressing enter.
So in your text editor back in our chat JS file, let's scroll up to the very top and within our constructor.
Oops.
Actually up at the very top you can see VSG code tried to import something when I tried to type Io and
run the function named IO.
I don't actually want this up here.
So if your voice code did this as well, you can delete this.
OK, but up at the top within our constructor, let's create a few properties that select this text
field and the form that it lives within.
So right below when we call inject HTML, let's say this dot chat field equals and then let's just say
document dot query selector quotes and it has an ID.
So hash tag of chat field.
OK, right below this.
Let's also say this dot chat form equals document dot query selector and it has an ID, so hash tag
of chat form.
OK, now let's just set up an event listener for chat form that when it is submitted we do something
custom.
So within our events area, let's add a new event.
Let's say this dot chap form dot add event listener.
We give this two arguments, a comma B the first argument is the event that we're listening for instead
of click.
This would be quotes submit.
Right.
We're listening for when the form is submitted for the second argument, let's get rid of the B placeholder
and instead include an arrow function.
So parentheses and then the arrow symbol.
And in this case I actually do want to include curly brackets and dropdown between the curly brackets.
Now let's do this within our parentheses.
Let's include a parameter of E short for event and then within the body of this function, let's say
e dot prevent default.
So when this form is submitted, we do not want to perform a hard reload write, we want to stop that
default behavior.
OK then right after that.
But still within the body of this function, let's call a function that doesn't exist yet.
We can create it in just a moment.
So let's say this dot send message to server.
OK, now let's just go create a method with this matching name.
So down within our methods area, let's create a new method, give it a name of send message to server
parentheses, curly brackets.
And now remember, we stored our socket connection within the property of this dot socket.
Now to leverage it, we can just look inside it and call a method named omit.
This will emit an event with a bit of data to the server.
We give it to arguments.
So A comma B the first argument is a custom name that we get to make up that describes this type of
event.
So quotes you can make up any name you want, but I will name this event chat message from browser.
OK, then the second argument, instead of this placeholder B, we just give it an object with any data
that we want to send to the server.
So curly brackets to create an object, you can make up any property name you want, but I'm going to
go with a property of message colon.
And then this is where you could say, Hey.
Hello, but what we'd want to do is actually just pull the value of whatever the user has typed into
this text field.
So to do that instead of quotes, hey, hello, we just have message colon and then say this dot chat
field dot value, OK, after this line.
But still within this method, let's clear out that Chatfield.
Right.
So after it's sent to the server.
So if we type a bit of text, as soon as we submit this, then that field should be cleared and emptied
out.
So you're ready to type a new message.
So to do that, we can just say this dot chat field dot value should now equal just an empty pair of
quotes.
And then let's also be sure to focus that field again, just so it's truly ready for the user to just
immediately begin typing again.
So this dot chat field and then call focus cool.
At this point, let's save this file and now let's go into our app JS file and tell our server what
it should do when it detects an event of this type.
Right.
An event of chat message from browser.
So at this point, jump back into app dot J.S. and towards the bottom.
Look for this section where we said Io dot on connection within the body of this function.
We can go ahead and get rid of this console dot logline.
That was just for a test.
OK, and within the parentheses for this function, let's include a parameter, let's call it socket.
So this represents the connection between server and browser.
So now within the body of this function, let's say socket dot on and we give this to arguments.
So A comma, B, the first argument is the event type.
So on the event of in this case it would be quotes and then chat message from browser.
This is what makes Socket Io so powerful.
We are free to create as many different types of events as we want.
So if we were building a game in the browser, you could imagine there'd be events such as joint lobby,
exit, lobby, run, jump, walk.
OK, now when the server detects an event of this type, then for the second argument instead of this
B, we just include a function that we'd want to run in response.
So function parentheses, curly brackets.
Now remember, the browser sent along an object of data.
So within this function, within the parentheses, we can include a parameter to receive that incoming
data.
The parameter name could be anything but let's call it data.
OK, now within the body of this function, just as a test, why don't we log to the console, the message
that the user is sending to the browser.
So console dot log data, dot message.
Remember, that's the name of the property that we chose in our front end JavaScript.
Let's go ahead and save this and then be sure to open up your command line so it's visible and back
in the browser, if I refresh to have the latest JavaScript.
Now, if I open up the chat and say Hey, hello there and push enter back in my command line, I see
that message.
So now let's take things one step further.
Instead of just logging that message to the console as a test, let's send it out or broadcast it out
to all connected users.
So let's get rid of this console log line and instead, let's say Io dot image if you want it to emit
an event only to the browser that just sent you this message, we could say socket dot emit.
But in this case we're saying Io emit because we want to emit an event to everyone, all connected users.
So within these imit parentheses we give it to arguments.
The first is the name of the event type.
Let's go with chat message from server.
OK, and then for the second argument, we give it an object of any data that we want to send.
So let's just include a property of message Colen and just give it whatever value the browser just sent
to the server.
So data message.
So essentially we're just taking the message that one browser sent to the server and then the server
is sending that out to all connected browsers.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And now we just need to go into our front end JavaScript and tell it what to do when it receives or
detects an event of chat message from server back in Chappaqua.
Yes.
I want you to scroll down and find our method, the.
Named open connection within this method, right below this line, let's add a new line and let's say
this dot socket dot on and on the event of chat message from server, then the next argument.
So comma, we would want to run a function in response.
So function parentheses, curly brackets within these parentheses.
Let's include a parameter to receive the incoming data, let's say data.
And then in the body of this function, just as a quick annoying test, let's have an alert pop up so
alert and let's just alert data message.
Let's go ahead and save this and test everything out.
So be sure to refresh all of your browser windows.
So I have one window where I'm logged in as Brad.
I have this window where I'm logged in with barks a lot and then also be sure to have the chat box opened
in all of your browsers, OK?
And then in the window where I'm logged in with Brad, if I say is anyone there and hit enter, not
only do I see that alert message in this window, but in the window where I'm logged in with barks a
lot, I also see that alert message.
This means that we successfully send a message to the server from this browser and then the server broadcasted
that data to any and all other connected browsers.
This may not seem like much, but trust me, this is very powerful.
In our next lesson, we are going to continue building out our chat feature.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.